---
output:
  pdf_document: default
  word_document: default
  html_document: default
---
## DATA AND CODE FOR THE ARTICLE:

Martínez-Minaya J., Conesa D., Fortin M-J., Alonso-Blanco C., Picó F. X. and Marcer A. (2019) **A hierarchical Bayesian Beta regression approach to study the effects of geographic genetic structure and spatial autocorrelation on species distribution range shifts.** 
_Molecular Ecology Resources_.


### DIRECTORY STRUCTURE
_Note: About 12 Gb of disk space are needed to store the results after executing the scripts._  

\<your root directory\>/  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;data/  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;scripts/  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;outputs/  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;manuscript/  

### DATA 
_Note: Please unzip the data.zip file to get the following directories and files._  

As explained in the Materials and Methods section of the paper, bioclim predictors for year 2000 have been generated using data of the Digital Climatic Atlas of the Iberian Peninsula (http://opengis.uab.cat/wms/iberia/en_index.htm) and the biovars function in the dismo R package (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dismo/index.html). Bioclim predictors for the two 2070 RCP 2.6 and 8.5 scenarios have been generated by averaging the four models: a) HadGEM2-ES (Met Office Hadley Centre, UK), b) MRI-CGCM3 (Meteorological Research Institute, Japan), c) MIROC-ESM (Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology, Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, The University of Tokyo and National Institute for Environmental Studies, Japan) and d) NorESM1-M (Norwegian Climate Centre, Norway). These data have been downloaded from the WorldClim v1.4 website (http://www.worldclim.org/cmip5_30s).

#### Directory structure and files  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**data/climate/2000/\***: Predictor layers for year 2000.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**data/climate/2070/\***: Predictor layers for year 2070 (mean scenarios for RCP 2.6 and 8.5).  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**data/sp/\***: Arabidopsis thaliana accessions (location of populations and genetic info).  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**data/study_area/\***: Boundaries of the Iberian peninsula.  

All geographic coordinates are in the ETRS89 / LAEA Europe projection (EPSG:3035; http://spatialreference.org/ref/epsg/etrs89-etrs-laea/)  

Data columns in the data/sp/ath_accessions.csv file:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**acronym**: Unique population code  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**x**: X coordinate  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**y**: Y coordinate  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**gc1**: Genetic cluster C1 membership proportion  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**gc2**: Genetic cluster C2 membership proportion  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**gc3**: Genetic cluster C3 membership proportion  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**gc4**: Genetic cluster C4 membership proportion  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio1**: Bioclim variable BIO1, Annual Mean Temperature (ºC)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio2**: Bioclim variable BIO2, Mean Temperature Diurnal Range (ºC)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio3**: Bioclim variable BIO3, Isothermality (-)    
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio4**: Bioclim variable BIO4, Temperature Seasonality (ºC)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio8**: Bioclim variable BIO8, Mean Temperature of the Wettest Quarter (ºC)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio12**: Bioclim variable BIO12, Annual Precipitation (mm)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio15**: Bioclim variable BIO15, Precipitation Seasonality (-)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;**bio18**: Bioclim variable BIO18, Precipitation of the Warmest Quarter (mm)  

### SCRIPTS
_Note: Please unzip the scripts.zip file to get the following directory and files. Also, be aware that the execution of the whole main.R script may be a very long process depending on your computer specifications. It may even take up to 2-3 days._  

#### Directory structure and files  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**scripts/***: All scripts to perform the analysis and generate the results.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**main.R**: This script calls the rest of the scripts and performs all analysis and generates results.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**init.R**: Configuration script. Also creates the needed outputs and manuscript directories.   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**functions.R**: Repository of functions used by the scripts.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**maxent.R**: Generates all Maxent models and results.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**hbm.R**: Generates all Hierarchical Bayesian Models and results.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**manuscript.R**: Collects all results and generates tables and figures of manuscript and Supplementary Information.  

### OUTPUTS
_Note: Created by the scripts._  

#### Directory structure and files  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**outputs/maxent/\***: Target directory for all model outputs for Maxent.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**outputs/hbm/\***: Target directory for all model outputs for the Hierarchical Bayesian Models.  


### MANUSCRIPT
_Note: Created by the scripts._  

#### Directory structure and files  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**manuscript/tables/\***: Target directory for csv files corresponding to tables in the manuscript and supplementary information.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**manuscript/figures\***: Target directory for png files corresponding to figures in the manuscript and supplementary information.  


------    
Also available at http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.2552025


